# Motus Analysis Directory

This directory contains the results of the Motus analysis for high-temperature and normal-temperature samples.

## Directory Information

- **User**: Alberto Gonzalez Calatayud
- **Date Created**: 21/01/2024
- **Description**: This directory hosts the results of a comprehensive Motus analysis aimed at addressing specific research questions.

## Analysis Overview
## Motus Analysis Script

To execute the Motus analysis, you can use the provided script named "motus.sh." The script should be run from the "motus" directory and requires three arguments:

1. `<sample_type>`: Specify either "high" or "normal" based on the type of samples you want to analyze (high-temperature or normal-temperature).

2. `<threshold>`: Set the number of marker-gene detections as the threshold for the analysis.

3. `<output_filename>`: Choose a name for the output file generated by the Motus analysis.

For example, to analyze high-temperature samples with a threshold of 3 and save the results to a file named "high_mOTUs," use the following command:

```bash
./scripts/motus.sh high 3 high_mOTUs

## Data Files

The raw read files in .fq.gz format, including both forward and reverse sequences produced by Illumina, can be located in the "data" directory.

## Output Files

The Motus analysis generates two primary files within the "results" directory:

- `<output_filename>`: This file contains the results of the Motus analysis.

- `<output_filename>_ordered`: An ordered version of the results file, where entries are arranged based on specific criteria, such as numerical values.

## Logging

To monitor errors and messages throughout the analysis process, log files are stored in the "logs" directory.

## END

Thank you for utilizing this Motus analysis pipeline :)


