RNAseq Analysis
===================
- **User:** Alberto Gonzalez Calatayud
- **Date:** 24/01/2024

This directory contains the necessary scripts and data for performing RNA sequencing (RNAseq) analysis.

Contents
--------
- **Data:** Raw sequencing data in .fq.gz format, both forward and reverse reads, produced by Illumina.

Scripts
-------
- **analysis.sh:** This script is designed to perform quality checks on the sequencing data. It checks the format, ensures that forward and reverse reads match, and provides statistics on read lengths and distributions. It is used for assessing data quality before further analysis.

- **mapping.sh:** The purpose of this script is to map the sequencing reads to a reference genome using BWA (Burrows-Wheeler Aligner). It processes multiple samples, both high-temperature and normal-temperature, in parallel. The resulting SAM files are stored in the "results" directory.

- **samtobam.sh:** This script is used to convert SAM files to BAM files. It logs errors encountered during the conversion process. The converted BAM files are saved in the "results" directory.

Results
-------
- **Results:** This directory contains the output files generated by the analysis scripts. It includes SAM and BAM files resulting from the mapping process.

Logs
----
- **Logs:** Log files are stored in this directory, which provides a record of errors and messages encountered during the analysis.

Usage
-----
To utilize the provided scripts, follow these steps:

1. **Quality Check (analysis.sh):** This script is designed to perform quality checks on the raw sequencing data. Execute it as follows:
scripts/analysis.sh

2. **Index of the Reference Genome:** A reference genome index (genome.fasta) is used for mapping and can be found in the "data/index" directory.
Run the following command: 

3. **Mapping (mapping.sh):** Use this script to map the sequencing reads to a reference genome. Specify the sample type (either "high" or "normal") when calling the script, like this:
RNAseq/scripts/mapping.sh high or RNAseq/scripts/mapping.sh normal

4. **Conversion (samtobam.sh):** Convert SAM files to BAM files using this script. It will automatically process the samples for you:
./samtobam.sh

To check the quality of the readings I performed in another environment where I could install fastqc (due to the lack of permissions in the exercise environment) and performed a fastqc with each sample to observe the report generated in .html.
